---
date: 2022-03-24
title: Participation in the Letter-of-Intent of the Base4NFDI initiative
preview-text: DataPLANT joined beside the other NFDI consortia the Base4NFDI initiative on base services. It sees itself in  a potential role as an incubator for RDM tools and services motivated by the needs of the fundamental plant research community. In DataPLANT, requirement profiles are created in the form of usable prototypes that are further developed in an agile and interactive process in exchange with the professional community. The resulting focus of DataPLANT is on the joint design and development of these tools and services, with the following emphasis ...
---

DataPLANT joined beside the other NFDI consortia the Base4NFDI initiative on base services. It sees itself in  a potential role as an incubator for RDM tools and services motivated by the needs of the fundamental plant research community. In DataPLANT, requirement profiles are created in the form of usable prototypes that are further developed in an agile and interactive process in exchange with the professional community. The resulting focus of DataPLANT is on the joint design and development of these tools and services, having the following emphasis: Metadata annotation tooling, ontology extension and update service, data integration and structuring focusing on the ARC (annotated research context), data versioning and sharing (GitLab for data sets, InvenioRDM for data publication). The participants in DataPLANT bring in expertise in federated cloud- and storage services as well as in redeployable, reproducible services. Further contribution could be brought in on long-term access to deprecated software environments (for reproducibility and re-use; Emulation-as-a-Service cloud component to complement repository services as a federated component), AAI (working with KeyCloak and multi AAI setups).

In the long term, DataPLANT estimates the development in such a way that in the future in the consortium primarily departmental (high service layer) services will be developed and the lower base services layers will be obtained and used directly. The [Letter-of-Intent](https://www.dfg.de/download/pdf/foerderung/programme/nfdi/absichtserklaerungen_2022/2022_base4_nfdi.pdf) is available online at the DFG homepage on the NFDI The Base4NFDI grant application will be developed and finalised till the end of the month. DataPLANT is formally represented through it's applicant institution the University of Freiburg.
