---
date: 2024-08-07
title: Notification on accepted contributions to the Base4NFDI User Conference
description: DataPLANT is among the initiators and strong supporters of Base4NFDI, actively embracing joint efforts on infrastructure development. Thus we contributed to the recent call-for-participation to the first Base4NFDI User Conference held in Berlin in November 2024. This two-day event aims to showcase basic services...
highlight: false
---
DataPLANT is among the initiators and strong supporters of Base4NFDI, actively embracing joint efforts on infrastructure development. Thus we contributed to the recent call-for-participation to the first [Base4NFDI User Conference](https://events.gwdg.de/event/658/) held in Berlin in November 2024. This two-day event aims to showcase basic services, enabling the audience to understand the offerings, explore integration into the NFDI community, and evaluate technical interoperability and local policy implications. The interactive program will cover various services, provide insights from supporting institutions, and address alignment with national and European infrastructures. Our submitted proposals on ["Experiences and status quo of IAM / CAAI in DataPLANT"](https://events.gwdg.de/event/658/contributions/2379/), ["Software repository for the NFDI"](https://events.gwdg.de/event/658/contributions/2386/), ["Cloud based flexible service infrastructure stack for the NFDI"](https://events.gwdg.de/event/658/contributions/2388/) as well as a joint contribution with NFDI4BIOIMAGE were accepted either as short talk or posters.

DataPLANT began integrating community AAI (Authentication and Authorization Infrastructure) early, using its expertise to evaluate Base4NFDI IAM options for inclusion and participating in the implementation phase. The preliminary results are reported in the first contribution mentioned. We are preparing a proposal for a GitLab or general-purpose versioning/collaboration service to be developed into a Base4NFDI service (second contribution). Relevant Base4NFDI services should include the Git or GitLab4NFDI versioning.Further, we contribute to general architecture considerations in the NFDI, reflected in our third contribution.

Previously, we already contributed to the recent CoRDI conference on topics like ["DataPLANT cloud oriented service infrastructure: Open for integration and adaptation."](doi.org/10.52825/cordi.v1i.414) and ["Improving the research desktop experience for OpenStack VDI integrating hardware accelerated rendering and remote transport."](doi.org/10.52825/cordi.v1i.413).

Our aim is to consolidate services in the future and provide input to common services for either the whole NFDI or consortia working with similar infrastructures. Our consortium's ongoing involvement aims to strengthen the sections, actively contribute to the development of joint solutions for common challenges and achieve tangible cross-consortia results. Thus, our consortium is already shifting its original focus from developing and providing infrastructure and services within the consortium to leveraging central infrastructure to varying degrees. 