---
date: 2025-03-14
title: DataPLANT present at the E-Science-Tage 2025 in Heidelberg
description: Our consortium participated with a poster on "DataPLANT services design - Considerations towards a common NFDI landscape" providing input to the discussion on the further design of a joint NFDI services landscape. Many Research Data Management services are not limited to ...
highlight: true
---
Our consortium participated with a poster on "DataPLANT services design - Considerations towards a common NFDI landscape" providing input 
to the discussion on the further design of a joint NFDI services landscape. Many Research Data Management services are not limited to a 
single scientific domain and are of interest to many research institutions. As no individual research institution can fully provide all 
relevant services in RDM, collaboration and shared services are both desirable and necessary. Keeping this in mind and allow for 
cross-disciplinary data sharing the creation of a cross-disciplinary RDM landscape is required. The envisioned architecture has to meet 
the specific needs of research groups and disciplines, while also enabling the (re-)use of data across traditional boundaries as well as 
the deployment of AI approaches. The development of applications and tools for bottom-up, community-driven research data management 
requires the collaboration of multiple stakeholders. In building these services, we have adhered to design principles that provide 
high-level guidance and ensure the creation of sustainable and maintainable applications. The process follows an incremental and iterative 
approach, ensuring continuous stakeholder alignment and commitment.

In line with this vision, one of the long standing core objectives of the DataPLANT consortium is to provide tools and services that 
can be shared with other consortia and deployed across flexible backend infrastructures. At the heart of these technical services is 
the PLANTdataHUB, a science gateway designed to support data management, analysis and publication workflows. In addition to core 
functions, the PLANTdataHUB offers workflow pipeline templates, automated quality assurance, and other interaction services to foster 
DataPLANT's open participation and contribution model. This model encompasses all relevant assets, including ARCs, raw data, metadata 
templates, ontologies, code, and workflow descriptions. Our services are designed as flexible, cloud-based microservices, supporting 
both on-premises installations and future integration with a shared NFDI infrastructure. 

The three day event consisting of key notes, parallel tracks of presentations, lightening talks, workshops and poster session provided 
multiple opportunities to exchange with practitioners from other scientific domains ans research institutions including representatives 
of the different state initiatives on RDM on the future development on infrastructure and services.
